My first "Recently" post, a la Tom Macwright.

# Notebook blog
One big change this month is that I started a daily writing practice. In my first "lifehack" days, back in 2010, I used 750 words for a while. Now, I have a jekyll site. It's public-facing, very different. Heavily inspired by DR MacIver, who's in my personal canon at the moment - I can't get enough of his writing and thinking.

The daily writing has been, I think, very good for me. 

# Co-founder

I may have found a cofounder for Recoolit. This is a big deal - I wrote about it more in my newsletter, but when I look back on this month in several years this has a good chance of being the most important thing that happened this month.

# Buying a car

The last few days I've been looking to buy a used car. It's a pretty miserable process. I don't understand why there isn't a trusted national brand for this. My guess is there are many startups that have tried and failed to solve this problem -- I'm aware of one, where an ex-girlfriend was an early employee. They have been around for a while, raised a bunch of money, and as far as I can tell still have a pretty marginal presence in only a few west coast cities.

# Consulting

As I continue depleting my savings to work on Recoolit, I've started opening up for a bit of consulting work to extend my runway. I'm just starting one project I'm excited about, with a non-profit working on supply chain transparency. A friend of mine has been working with them for a few years on strategic issues, and they've decided that their data, and the sustainability metrics they calculate with that data, is their key competitive advantage. I'm helping them design the technical foundation that will allow them to continue building new value-add products and services on top of it.

There's another possible project in the works that also involves the data-for-good space, but in a more serious way.

I was pretty sure I was done with consulting -- I don't always love client management, don't love being split-brained. But there's something nice about it too.

# Slate Star Codex

I was pretty shook up when Scott Alexander deleted his blog. SSC is in my "personal canon" and has been a foundational part of my input stream for years. 

# Miscellaneous self-improvement

I started running this month! My brother-in-law has been running for years and I finally started joining him. I enjoy it much more than I ever have before, and I hope to keep it up.

Started also a new food plan, and tracking my daily food. Even with my limited social sphere, the social pressure has forced me off a few times. I think this will get easier.

# Media

All fiction this month, but not that much of it. Three novels start-to-finish: Infinite Detail, Fer-de-lance, and Jonathan Strange and Mr Norell. 

I wrote about Infinite Detail here. It's fun, but I think overhyped.

Fer-de-lance is the first in the Nero Wolfe series. Nero Wolfe is an astonishing character, a "detective" who reads more like a villain on paper than a hero. He's motivated mostly by money, understands everyone's impulses and motivations at a glance and is not shy about manipulating them. He has a weird hobby (orchid-growing) and keeps a rigorous schedule. He's also a complete glutton, a morbidly obese man who eats lavishly, drinks excessively, and almost never leaves the house -- he solves mysteries by thinking. The books are balanced by the narrator Archie, his right-hand man, a man of action who goes and runs the errands, feeding information into Nero's giant brain for processing.

Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell is also good -- it's a bit long, frankly, but enjoyable in its way. Hard to say I'd recommend it.

I miss reading books with people -- earlier this year I read Brothers Karamazov with a friend and it changes everything about how I see the book. I'd do something like Lunchclub but based only on what book I'm reading at the moment. Writing, in theory, could help this, but it's not the same.


Books:
* Jonathan Strange
* The Peripheral
* Idea Factory
* Fer-de-lance
* Light
* Infinite Detail

Movies
* Cape Fear
* Bull Durham
* california split
* uncut gems
* butch cassidy and the sundance kid
* fer-de-lance
* o brother where are thou
